>> off screen female: And your template.
What context to you want to put the looper
variable or the count variable in?
So like if not global
where would that fit in your-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
Okay.
>> off screen female: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Perfect segue
into our next topic.
So here is the loop, right.
This is a function called loopNTimes.
We just pass an n and if you're going to
keep track of that counter, you keep track
of it here, n-1, n+2, however you
want to do it, bypassing it through.
Cool, okay.
So, I'm gonna just go through this to make
sure we're all super solid on recursion,
because tomorrow,
we're gonna be applying
this o lots of cool stuff.
Okay, so here we have loopNTimes.
We are going to call it and
then I'm gonna pass
the mic to the audience, so be prepared.
You need to tell me what's gonna happen
next and I will do it on the screen.
Cool?
Okay, who wants to help me out?
Who is a very helpful person and
likes to be helpful?
Thanks Andy!
>> off screen male: Sure, anytime.
So the first time,
it will console dot log N equals three.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Well, what's the very,
very first thing that's gonna happen?
>> off screen male: The very,
very first thing?
You'll call it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yup and
it will pass three, right?
>> off screen male: Yes.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool and
then you can go from there.
>> off screen male: So
you'll call it passing in
3 at console.log and =3,
3 is not less than or =1, so
it will not return complete.
What it will do is call itself on 3- 1 or
2, in layman's terms.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool,
all right, who wants to go next?
Yeah, okay.
>> off screen female: Okay, so
now it'll be called with 2.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It's
gonna be called with 2?
>> off screen female: Yep.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay, so
I'm gonna put it on our stack.
And just to note, there's a return
statement here but we're not there yet,
just to be clear.
Because I think this confuses
some people sometimes.
But yeah, so n equals 2.
So n will console log with 2 and
it still isn't less than or equal to 1.
So we won't return complete yet,
we'll go around for another time, cool.
All right who's next?
I think Miranda wants to go.
>> off screen female: Hopefully.
>> off screen male: One
>> off screen female: [LAUGH] So
it'll call itself with n minus 1, or
1, 2 minus 1, 1, yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm hm.
>> off screen female: And then we'll log
with 1, if, is less than or
equal to one over two.
So we'll return complete.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Return complete.
Yeah, absolutely.
And what that aslo means is that we
will not move forward in this function.
So once we return, the next thing,
the thing that we have to do is,
we have to pop this off the star.
So here we go, just gonna delete it and
that's our pop.
Everyone clear on how this works?
Okay, so I pop it off and this returns us
complete, right, in a string, great.
So basically and so this return statement
is going to return whatever this returns.
So it's going to return complete.
Pop it off the stack,
because this function is done.
This returns complete again,
return statement
is just gonna return
whatever this function
loopNTimes returns and
so returns complete.
We pop it off and
then we have here
complete.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool, so
if someone sum up in their own
words how this process works?
Someone who hasn't talked yet.
But if no one says anything
then I'm gonna call on Abby.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Just like
what is your, if you had to summarize or
just would have,
maybe you have sort of like a concept
in your mind of how this works?
A picture or
something if you're a visual person.
Can you share that with me,
with the group?
This helps everyone here just
sort of deepen our knowledge,
it helps me know what's going
on in your head, as well.
And I can clarify any confusions, because
it's important to make sure we have
this solid before we move on tomorrow,
when it gets a little trickier.
Yeah?
>> off screen male: Can I actually
ask a question first?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Sure.
>> off screen male: What happens to
the string complete?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What do you mean?
>> off screen male: So I'm just looking
at it in the console and
it just gets down to one.
But it never Like,
where does complete go I guess?
Is it just saved for
whatever function it goes to next,
is that?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
that's a great question.
So what happens, here,
let me just put us back where we were.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
since it's basically anything that's being
returned is gonna return to the next up.
And so, this function here is
the next one that's up, right?
>> off screen female: I get that I just
mean at the very end.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> off screen male: If it's returned,
it doesn't print int he console.
>> off screen female: It doesn't
print in the console, but
it's stored somewhere, right?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
It's stored in the scope of the function.
>> off screen male: Okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So it's private in
there, yeah.
Yeah, you can keep track of it by
console.logging instead of returning.
Or doing both maybe if you wanted.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool, okay.
So I am still waiting for someone to just
give me a summary of this process that we
went through in like kind of drawing
out and mapping out these recursive
calls.
>> off screen female: I
guess it the function
that calls itself until
a specific condition is met.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, yeah and
then what happens when
that condition is met?
>> off screen female: It removes itself
from the stack, right?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
so well, once the function
on the stack Has completed,
it just hops off the stack and
then it goes to the next one,
all the way up to the top.
>> off screen female: It
sounds like you roll your snowball down
the hill and it accumulates as it goes?
At the end, you just sort of whip
the snowball back to where you started.
Well, I think you rewind
the video [CROSSTALK], [LAUGH].
[LAUGH]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, yeah,
yeah, exactly.
I think of it more as like, you throw
the snowball up on top of the hill and
then it starts rolling down kind of,
you know what I mean?
Because, or
you go all the to the bottom and
it rolls backwards against gravity or
something.
Because it's really going all the way,
all the way, all the way down and
then it goes back up,
does that make sense?
Totally.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, exactly,
I think that's the most plausible example
in my world, that's how my world works.
>> off screen male: I guess what I would
say is usually try to solve a hard problem
by splitting it into simpler problems and
if the simpler problem is similar to the
original problem Then that's a recursive
situation.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, yeah.
Totally.
So we'll see,
especially starting tomorrow,
exactly what David is talking about here.
The whole core of recursion is
just the same procedure on smaller and
smaller bits.
And it could save us a lot of time
when we talk about fast algorithms.
Some of them can save us a lot of time.
So, that's kind of cool.
We like fast algorithms because that
means we can do more cool stuff.
All right, we're good?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So,
if I was a teacher
Hypothetically [LAUGH] I gave
you a test tomorrow and was like, hm.
How does [LAUGH] recursion,
can you solve, can you loop in
with recursion,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What
grade would you give yourself?
What grade do you think I would give you?
>> off screen male: Out of
what?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Out of A through
C.
>> off screen male: Okay.
[LAUGH]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: There's no failing
grades here.
A through C.
Anyone?
Here you can do it.
This is A, B and C.
It's okay I'm not actually going to
give you a test or anything like that.
I'm just taking a,
I just wanna see where you're at, so
I can talk a lot more about this.
Or, we can get going.
It's really up to you, so.
>> off screen male: Is the test to write
a recursive function from scratch?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: If I said hey,
can you loop n times and
write the loop n times specific function.
Yes, you guys are good.
Awesome, great.